.TH FUSEADF 1 "May 2024"
.SH NAME
fuseadf \- Mount a volume of an ADF image and read or write files with FUSE.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fuseadf
[\fBoptions\fR] <\fIfile_adf\fR> <\fImount_dir\fR>
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBfuseadf\fR is a simple libfuse-based filesystem allowing to mount
a volume of an ADF (an image of a floppy or a hard disk in Amiga format)
and to access the data the volume contains, either in read-write (default)
or in read-only mode (set with \fB-o ro\fR).
.PP
What is important - mounting using FUSE can be done by a regular user
(no need for root-level access).
.PP
Volume/partition to mount can be chosen with -p option. By default, the first
volume (0) is mounted, so providing this option is generally not needed for
images with one volume only (like floppy disk images or hdf/hard disk files,
without RDB/Rigid disk block).
.PP

.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-p
Specify volume/partition (number) to mount (default: 0).
.TP
.B \-i
Ignore checksum errors.
.TP
.B \-h
Show help/usage info.
.TP
.B \-V
Show version.
.PP
Options provided by FUSE:
.TP
.B \-f
Execute in foreground.
.TP
.B \-d
Execute in foreground with debug output.
.TP
.B \-s
Single-threaded mode (enforced since v0.3, no need to provide it).
.TP
.B -l [logfile]
Log fuse messages to a file (default: fuseadf.log)
.TP
.B -o options
Comma-separated list of mount options, ie. 'ro' to enforce read-only mount
(see also man pages listed below)
.SH EXAMPLES
\fBfuseadf mydisk.adf myfiles\fR
.RS
mounts volume 0 of mydisk.adf to myfiles directory in read-write mode
.RE

\fBfuseadf -l logfile -p 1 -o ro mydisk.adf myfiles\fR
.RS
mounts volume 1 of mydisk.adf to myfiles directory in read-only mode
and logs messages to logfile
.RE

\fBfuseadf -f -i mydisk.adf myfiles\fR
.RS
mounts volume 0 of mydisk.adf to myfiles directory in read-write mode,
ignoring the block checksum errors and leaving the process in the foregound
outputing messages to stdout/err
.RE

.SH TROUBLESHOOTING
By default, fuseadf mounts the image and goes silently into background.
In case of having trouble mounting (or perfoming certain operations),
check the messages, either by enabling a logfile (with -l option) or
keep the process in foreground (with -f or, more verbose, -d option),
so that the messages appear on the console.
.SH BUGS
In case of problems that does not find an explanation by the means described
in the troubleshooting section above, submit an issue on the project website
(link below, in the homepage section).
.SH HOMEPAGE
The project page can be found at https://gitlab.com/t-m/fuseadf.
.SH NOTES
fuseadf relies on ADFlib (https://github.com/lclevy/ADFlib) for accessing
data on ADF disk images.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fusermount (1), mount.fuse (1), mount (8)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBfuseadf\fR was written by \fBTomasz Wolak\fR <tomas.wolak@gmail.com>.
.PP
